data/dandelion-pages/explorer-api.md, before:

---
title: 'explorer-api'
date: '05-02-2021'
version: 1
---

# cardano-rest/explorer-api
## You can use this REST API to gather basic info from the blockchain

This is the currently officially supported API to explore Cardano transactions. In future it may be augmented or replaced by cardano-graphql, but cardano-explorer-api will be supported for some time, even once alternatives become available.

![](/showcase-explorer-api.png)

## Links
- [View on IOHK GitHub](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-rest#overview)
- [Official Documentation from IOHK](https://input-output-hk.github.io/cardano-rest/explorer-api)

- [Exampl graphql queries](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-graphql/tree/master/packages/api-cardano-db-hasura/src/example_queries)

## Usage

- [testnet: https://explorer-api.testnet.dandelion.link](https://explorer-api.testnet.dandelion.link)
- [mainnet: https://explorer-api.mainnet.dandelion.link](https://explorer-api.mainnet.dandelion.link)

### bash:

```bash
curl -s \\
https://explorer-api.testnet.dandelion.link/api/txs/last
```

### Version
- mainnet: `"version": "3.1.1"`
- testnet: `"version": "3.1.1"`

Commit message:

Add metadata for Dandelion endpoints plus minor content tweaks

data/dandelion-pages/explorer-api.md, after:

---
number: "Explorer API"
title: "explorer-api"
date: "2021-04-07"
version: 1
videoId: ""
videoTitle: ""
path: "/dandelion/endpoints/explorer-api"
videos:
  [
  ]
fullWidthImageAndText:
  {
    src: "/keepbees.jpeg",
    title: "Submit API",
    subtitle: "Dandelion Endpoint",
    orientation: "right",
  }
objectives:
  {
    title: "What can I do with Explorer API?",
    list:
      [
        "You can use this REST API to gather basic info from the blockchain",
      ],
  }
recirc:
  { image: "/learn.jpeg", color: "bg-blue-600", list: ["2021-09", "2021-10"] }
---  

# cardano-rest/explorer-api

This is the currently officially supported API to explore Cardano transactions. In future it may be augmented or replaced by cardano-graphql, but cardano-explorer-api will be supported for some time, even once alternatives become available.

![](/showcase-explorer-api.png)

## Links
- [View on IOHK GitHub](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-rest#overview)
- [Official Documentation from IOHK](https://input-output-hk.github.io/cardano-rest/explorer-api)

- [Exampl graphql queries](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-graphql/tree/master/packages/api-cardano-db-hasura/src/example_queries)

## Usage

- [testnet: https://explorer-api.testnet.dandelion.link](https://explorer-api.testnet.dandelion.link)
- [mainnet: https://explorer-api.mainnet.dandelion.link](https://explorer-api.mainnet.dandelion.link)

### bash:

```bash
curl -s \\
https://explorer-api.testnet.dandelion.link/api/txs/last
```

### Version
- mainnet: `"version": "3.1.1"`
- testnet: `"version": "3.1.1"`
