---
number: "003"
title: "Gimbalabs Discord Redesign"
subtitle: "Moving forward to 2024"
author: "Hinson Wong"
date: "2024-01-20"
version: 1
path: "/blog/003"
---

## In this blog

- Why we want to redesign the Gimbalabs Discord server
- A look at current Gimbalabs Discord
- How to make an ideal Discord server for the Gimbalabs community?
- How you can contribute to our Gimbalabs Discord redesign?

Hello all! Following up with our “Gimbalabs in 2024” blog, we would like to extend the discussion on Gimbalabs Discord a bit from here. We would explain the motive behind the redesign on Gimbalabs Discord server, and trying to spin up discussion.

## Why we want to redesign the discord of Gimbalabs?

One of the key questions to answer in 2024 for Gimbalabs is that whether Gimbalabs needs to exist. I have discussed with James extensively in 2023 about this question, and am here committed to help with the answer searching process. Certainly throughout the last couple of years, Gimbalabs has provided value to the community which I am not the exception as well. Since its inception in late 2020, Gimbalabs has been always a place for learning, ideas exchange and loosely connected communication. 

As a side product of that, it becomes kind of messy. At the start of 2024, we though we would try to do a bit of housekeeping - cleaning up our Discord server a bit. With this, we want to re-gather the attention of our diverse community. Ultimately, we could better assess the position of Gimbalabs as a community and maybe provide some insights on the value of Gimbalabs’ existence, guiding our future path.

## A look at current Gimbalabs discord

Let’s dive into the details. To be completely honest to ourselves, the current Gimbalabs discord is not the best places to serve our purpose of creating a robust network of global professionals. Currently, we have spotted some issues as below:

1. **Difficult to navigate for generic needs**

    For the vast majority of the community members, myself included, we always look for a place to stay connected. Regardless if you want to share your project updates, look for technical discussion or even just wanted to initiated a random causal chats with like-minded people, it takes us a while just to find the correct location to put down our texts.

2. **Difficult to be aware of others’ conversation**

    Same happens to people potentially interested in your content, it is just too difficult to stay informed with the community when it causes non-trivial efforts just to search for the channels.

3. **Too many ad-hoc channels**

    When we try to create the loose network of communication, as time goes by there is too many ad-hoc channels just to serve a temporary or narrow purpose. When the life cycle passes, they becomes the obsoleted un-utilized leftovers which only creates confusions.

4. **Too many duplicated chill chat channels**

    When you got excited with the latest updates on a Cardano new project coming live, where would you choose to talk about this? A quickly partial summary of mine is that there are 5+ channels you can talk about it. It is just too difficult for an average community member to stay informed with 5+ separate channels which might talk about similar topics!

5. **Project specific channels are over-segmented**

    There are many projects evolve from Gimbalabs and continues the discussion within Gimbalabs discord. However, when each of them got so many sub-channels, it just becomes overwhelmed quickly to those not paying attention to it.

## How to make an ideal discord for Gimbalabs community?

I do believe there are some generic principles in making an ideal discord for Gimbalabs. If our purpose is to provide a place for people to stay connected, the Gimbalabs server should be easier to navigate with less confusion. Also, a good Discord server would gather repeated visitors and attention. Whenever we think of a topic, we would go to certain channels for discussion and the  same work for our like-minded friends. In turn, meaningful conversation could emerge.

## How can you contribute to our Gimbalabs Discord redesign?

I am actually a Cardano engineer and architect. My profession is to design and build potentially impactful solutions. Frankly, I could say that the above findings are only my subjective opinion. At the end of the day, Gimbalabs Discord is here to serve our community, so please reach out and let us know your thoughts! It might also be a good idea to have some form of administrators or moderators to manage different channels. 

After some discussion, the Discord redesign is just starting and we have so much room for any suggestions. If you also want to make an impact, we also welcome for engagement and let’s make our Discord a better place together!