---
number: "004"
title: "From Decentralization to Digital Nation"
subtitle: "What will we see in 2024 and onwards?"
author: "Alex Seregin"
date: "2024-01-24"
version: 1
path: "/blog/004"
---

## Introduction.
The concept of decentralization can be traced back to ancient civilizations, and it became central to the Web3 movement. This article aims to explore how it coalesced into its current form through emergence of the Internet, Open Source and Blockchain and Web3.0.

The first section will delve into the definition and the historical context of decentralization, tracing its roots from ancient civilizations to modern-day movements such as the open source software movement and blockchain technology, and gives an account of usage of the concept in various fields.

The second section will focus on how the development of technology catalyzed the Web3 movement and the promised land of Web3, and how decentralized systems can contribute to creating a more equitable and sustainable future for all.

The third section will discuss the dilemmas and challenges that Web3 communities face in implementing their ideal.

The fourth section highlights how the challenges manifest from the point of view of community members and hypotheses on steps that could be taken to address the challenges.

## 1. History of decentralization.
Early ideas resembling decentralization can be found in Ancient Greece and Rome, where smaller city-states or regions maintained a degree of autonomy within larger political entities. The modern use of decentralization in governance systems is often attributed to 19th century European thinkers such as Alexis de Tocqueville, who studied American democracy and its emphasis on local control.

In a broader sense, decentralization is about empowering individuals or smaller communities to make decisions that affect their lives directly, rather than relying on a central authority. This can be applied in different contexts like politics, economics, technology, and social structures. For example, in political systems, it could mean transferring power from the national government to regional governments or local municipalities; in economic systems, it might involve allowing businesses to operate independently rather than being controlled by a central corporation; and in technology, decentralization can refer to distributing data storage and processing across multiple nodes instead of having one central server.

The term "decentralization" itself is derived from two Latin words: 'dē-' meaning "away from" and 'centrum' meaning "the middle, axis, pivot or vanishing point". The idea of decentralization has evolved over time through various philosophical and political movements, such as [federalism](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/federalism/), [personalism](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/personalism/), and [anarchism](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/anarchism/), the works of [Martin Buber](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/buber/) and [Denis Diderot](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/diderot/).

In the 20th century the renewed interest in this type of structure of the state that decentralization is, comes from the recognition that less centralized decision-making would make national public institutions more effective, and that it would make local governments and civil society more competent in the management of their own affairs.

The first major trend in decentralization was administrative deconcentration. In the context of deconcentration processes, different ministries transfer their functions and authority to regional and/or local out-posts. This limited form of decentralization only concerns relations between central level organs and their lower tiers. Deconcentration means that decision-making remains at the center, the other levels of government being limited to transmitting orders and implementing decisions.

In political theory, decentralization emerged as a response to perceived problems with centralized governance, such as bureaucratic inefficiencies, corruption, and lack of responsiveness to local needs. Advocates for decentralization argued that power should be distributed among smaller units like states or municipalities, allowing them greater autonomy and flexibility in decision-making processes.

Rapid advancements in technology enabled further development and expansion of the concept of decentralization due to the rise of the internet and digital communication technologies enabling new forms of decentralized organization and governance, such as peer-to-peer networks and blockchain-based systems like Bitcoin or Ethereum. These technological innovations have given rise to a renewed interest in decentralization within various domains, including finance, governance, and social media platforms.

In political governance, decentralization has been adopted by many countries as a means of promoting democracy and local self-determination. For example, India's federal system allows for significant autonomy to be granted to its states in managing their affairs, while the European Union promotes subsidiarity – the idea that decisions should be made at the lowest possible level of government capable of handling them effectively.

In the realm of economics, proponents of decentralized markets argue that they can promote efficiency, innovation, and fairness by reducing the role of intermediaries and enabling direct transactions between individuals or businesses. Decentralized finance (DeFi) is an emerging field that seeks to create financial services built on blockchain technology, which aim at providing greater accessibility, transparency, and security than traditional centralized systems.

In the philosophy of Free Open Source Software the concept of decentralization emphasizes collaboration, community participation, and equal opportunities for all contributors. No single individual or organization should have exclusive authority over the development and maintenance of a project. Instead multiple contributors work together on various aspects of the project, with each person having equal opportunities to propose changes, fix bugs, and improve features. Decisions are made collectively by the community members through discussions, voting, and consensus building.

Decentralization has implications beyond just the technical aspects of open-source software. It can extend to governance models, licensing choices, and community organization. For example, decentralized decision-making structures like consensus-based governance or meritocratic systems can be employed within an open-source project's organizational framework. Furthermore, the use of permissive licenses that allow for commercialization and modification without restrictions also contributes to a more decentralized ecosystem.

## 2. Where are we now, and where is Web3.0?

The idea of decentralizing power structures by utilizing distributed ledger technology (DLT) to create more transparent, fair, and democratic systems has been discussed in the tech community for some time now.

The foundations for decentralized systems were laid with the introduction of peer-to-peer (P2P) networks, such as [Usenet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usenet), which allowed users to communicate directly without relying on central servers or intermediaries. The concept of decentralization was further explored in the field of cryptography with the development of public-key encryption, digital signatures, and secure multi-party computation protocols. These technologies enabled the creation of systems that could operate without a central authority or trusted third party.

In 1998 Nick Szabo, a computer scientist, introduced the concept of "bit gold," which was an early proposal for a decentralized digital currency based on cryptographic proof-of-work and a distributed ledger. Although bit gold never materialized into a working system, it laid the groundwork for future blockchain technologies. In 2008 Satoshi Nakamoto published the Bitcoin whitepaper, introducing the world to the first practical implementation of decentralization in the form of a digital currency. The "Decentralized Autonomous Organization" ([The DAO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_DAO)) was created in 2015, which aimed to demonstrate how a fully autonomous organization could be run using smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain. Although it ultimately failed due to a security vulnerability, the DAO experiment showcased the potential of decentralization in various aspects of life and business.

Lawrence Lessig, an American lawyer and professor at Harvard University, coined the phrase "code is law" in his book titled "Code and Other Laws of Cyberspace." Traditional laws may not be sufficient to regulate online activities, instead software code has become a form of regulation or governance within digital environments. Computer programs and algorithms can govern user behavior, transactions, and interactions; shaping how people use digital platforms and influencing their rights and responsibilities within those spaces.

One example of code that governs user behavior is digital money, or cryptocurrencies. Traditionally, money is described through having three functions: unit of account, store of value and medium of exchange. This is being questioned, however, in the recent literature, as there are examples where other things carry these functions, and there exist examples where money carries these functions rather poorly. Nevertheless, a strong connection exists between money and nation-state where money is essential for facilitating trade, investment, and overall economic growth, and is in turn regulated in political action by central banks and governments.

By adopting a common currency, users would be more closely linked economically, which could help promote cooperation and alignment of worldviews and values. But what happens when the currency is not issued by a nation state, but rather is a complex computer program whose purpose is to fulfill the function of money?

Web3 presumably aims to enable individuals, companies and governments to adopt, adapt, and develop the software in the Open-Source model, which leads to a more equitable distribution of resources and opportunities. The principles of decentralization driving the development of Open Source software along with usage of crypto to record ownership and value have the potential to revolutionize the way we live.

Open source communities play an essential role in shaping this vision of a digital community by providing accessible, collaborative, and customizable software solutions that can be adapted to various needs. These communities work together to develop innovative technologies, promote transparency, and empower individuals with the knowledge and skills required for active participation in cyberspace.

From this point of view Web3 and Metaverse are at the core very similar to the concept of a digital nation. In this type of society, citizens would interact with each other and their government through online platforms, virtual reality environments, or augmented reality experiences. The primary goal of such a nation would be to create an efficient, transparent, and democratic system that empowers its citizens to a good life regardless of their physical location.

A digital nation is an idea to combine open-source principles, cryptocurrency, and various aspects of governance to create a virtual society where citizens can access resources, collaborate on projects, and participate in democratic processes within the realm of cyberspace.  The vision is to enable individuals, companies and governments to adopt, adapt, and develop Open-Source projects leading to a more equitable distribution of resources and opportunities. This approach allows for diverse perspectives to be considered and incorporated into the development process, promoting innovation, resilience, and adaptability.

But why aren’t we there yet and what are the challenges Open Source and Web3 communities will need to overcome before wide adoption?

## 3. Dilemmas and Challenges

There exist numerous challenges associated with creating a digital nation. The principle of decentralization advocates for individual freedom, autonomy, and self-determination. It posits that power should be distributed among multiple entities rather than being concentrated in one central authority. In the context of open source communities, this means that responsibility is shared across numerous stakeholders such as developers, users, and other community members. This, however, presents certain challenges in implementing these principles in the real world or cyberspace.

Firstly, freedom and autonomy can not be disconnected from *[thrownness](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thrownness)*, the idea (particularly within the works of Martin Heidegger) that humans are born into a world already in progress and must navigate their way through it without complete control over their circumstances. This means that individuals working on projects must rely on self-organization, collaboration, and trust to achieve their goals. Thrownness highlights the inherent limitations on human autonomy and freedom due to us existing in the world that exists independently of us. Thrownness serves as a reminder that we cannot escape our embeddedness in the world and contributes to excessive anxiety and FUD (Fear, Uncertainty and Doubt).

Secondly, the lack of central authority means that coordination and management are inherently complex in decentralized social systems, which promotes conflict. Without a central authority, open-source communities must rely on consensus-based decision-making processes that can be time-consuming and challenging to implement. This often requires extensive communication and negotiation between members, which may slow down the pace of development or lead to disagreements over project direction. Contributors often have varying levels of expertise and commitment. As a result, it can be difficult for individuals to determine the extent of their shared responsibilities or how much effort they should invest in a project. This ambiguity may again lead to conflicts among participants.

Thirdly, reliance on cryptocurrencies as the economic lubricant in a digital nation opens up a whole new layer of problems. One of the important functions of money is the denomination of taxes, and although the idea of translating one’s taxables into a currency that is not recognised by the taxation authorities may seem appealing on the surface, we should not forget that it is essentially tax evasion.  On another hand, equitable access to work opportunities means higher supply of labor, which translates into competition and worse outcomes for workers, such as lower wages. Essentially highly educated and competitive community members must work against their personal interests to enable others access to the opportunities that may often be perceived as limited.

With careful analysis it becomes obvious why building a digital nation is tricky. It is a risky endeavor, with resistance to be expected from both within and outside of the community of builders. It is highly uncertain how the factors will interplay and one of the more painful discussions revolves around the theme of “how do we know if we are progressing?”

## 4. What’s next?

So to recap, Web3 is a nation of stateless nomads who are able to get fulfilling work, can travel freely, meanwhile get access to the best modern technology sure sounds like the next level of existence. As all good things it will never come true, but it is likely to leave a mark on the future - to change how people live their lives in many ways. Thinking about a web3 community in terms of a nation helps conceptualize the rather novel and radical idea.

But are we to expect, being the early testers?

Members of the Web3 communities must expect higher levels of anxiety (which come from uncertainty of the long term outcome and the high demand on personal autonomy, which triggers existential anxiety and [dasein](https://www.britannica.com/topic/Dasein). The implementation of a digital nation would require widespread access to technology and internet connectivity, which may not be available for everyone in society. As open source communities work towards creating a digital utopia, the concerns over impact on human values and social structures of others may contribute to the loss of meaning, apathy and the feelings of personal responsibility. We, therefore, must support and promote healthy coping mechanisms.

Open source projects often rely on volunteer contributions from individuals passionate about specific issues or problems. While this can lead to innovative solutions, it may also result in limited resources for large-scale development efforts necessary for building a comprehensive digital society. Clear governance structures are to be established to allow for shared narratives to form among the participants, which will enable them to act in their personal interests while maintaining and developing the project. Altruism should not be discouraged but there must be open and visible effort to reduce the reliance of the development on community member altruism.

Web3 must recognise the difference between different forms of capital, with some forms being the shared goods and others - genuine economic output. While shared goods are necessary for long term success, a nation that produces tradable goods and participates in global trade is arguably more prosperous than a nation that reinvests all the resources locally. In the context of Web3, the shared goods would be for example education opportunities and the improvements to the protocol, the global trade would represent products that may be in demand by those who are not interested in the idea of a digital nation per se, but need something the nation produces.

Potentially the digital state may become more compelling through exploration of the philosophical relation between value, the general equivalent (money), and the [Gavagai problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inscrutability_of_reference). Any modern asset may be reduced to its price: money is the general equivalent, a master signifier in which value of other things is expressed. This, however, comes to an interesting light with the concept of Typ-Ken: a group behaves as if it were one united organism, independent of size, because of both local and non-local rules. Inconsistency between the token (local) and type (non-local) that is not resolved at all contributes to collective behavior. In other words, people in the modern world often rely on price as the primary source of information; if an asset is priced with two tokens, each of which has different mechanism of obtainment, and existence of one of the tokens is unknown for the user, measurable differences in outcomes can be linked to the unknown token, which may lead to exploitation of those who are unable to perceive the token by those who are able to. Transparency and openness in this regard may make the economic entity that is a crypto network more compelling to participate in than any other economic network.

## Sources:
1. [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decentralization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decentralization)
2. [Tocqueville's "Administrative Decentralization" and the Catholic Principle of Subsidiarity](https://www.catholicculture.org/culture/library/view.cfm?recnum=9958)
3. [A History of Decentralization](http://www.ciesin.org/decentralization/English/General/history_fao.html)
4. [Effective Messaging Strategies: A Review of the Evidence](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK338333/#:~:text=,Goals%20and%20Target%20Audiences)
5. [Money, State, Hegemony: A Political Ontology of Money](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/07393148.2019.1596686)
6. [Typ-Ken (an Amalgam of Type and Token) Drives Infosphere](https://waseda.elsevierpure.com/en/publications/typ-ken-an-amalgam-of-type-and-token-drives-infosphere)
