---
number: "005"
title: "Philosophy on New Discord Design Proposal"
subtitle: "Gimbalabs Redesign"
author: "Hinson Wong"
date: "2024-02-05"
version: 1
path: "/blog/005"
---

## In this blog

With the first 2 community governance sessions into the discord redesign process, we have got pretty all-rounded ideas, suggestions and concerns. Currently we with community members who care drafted the proposed new discord design, and in this blog we would cover:

- What the categories of channels we have for the new Gimbalabs discord, and dive deep into them
- How we order the categories and why we are doing in this way
- How we solve the community needs on separate channel for sub-topic under each current channel
- How can we utilize discord bot to encourage engagement while remaining the design neat.

## What are the categories of channels we have for the new Gimbalabs discord?

In our first draft of design, we have come up with below’s 6 categories, and we would dive deep into what purposes they serve here.

1. **Info**
2. **Project Based Learnings**
3. **Contribution Circles**
4. **Current Projects**
5. **Discussion**
6. **Local Community**

### 1. Info

The **Info** category is the entry point of the discord, from reading the house rules in the **rules** channel, bot verification in the **verification** channel and welcome message delivering to all community members in the **start-here** channel. Ideally, by only reading the welcome message everyone could obtain an overview on Gimbalabs' resources, including all necessary links and intro.

All the community announcement would be made in the **announcement** channel, so going forward we no longer have to look for the reminder for any playground / live-coding sessions. All in one place.

Finally, there is one **give-feedback** channel for whatever feedback you wish to provide to the team member. We pin this funnel here as we want to promote a culture of iterative building, allowing quick feedback, quick response and improve our community together.

### **2. Project Based Learnings**

In 2024, one of the Gimbalabs’ core to-do items is prepare a network of PBLs, or Project Based Learning courses to our community as one of the flagship products. Therefore, we have dedicated a whole category of **Project Based Learnings** just for putting all those networks together. For each PBL, we would provide one separate channel as default, like currently we have **Plutus-PBL** and **Mesh-PBL** in our radar, so we would have 2 channels under this category. This is the place for all students to discuss anything about the courses.

One signification change in here is that we would only provide 1 channel for each PBL, in contrast to previously providing 10+ channels just for **Plutus-PBL**. It is because we have observed there are to many channels which are transitory in nature, eventually leading to so many ghost channels left there when the usage window is gone.

### 3. Contribution Circles

In our first few weeks of 2024, a complete 6 sessions on Gimbalabs governance discussion have been carried out, and we have come up with the 5 core circles which we would like to focus on in 2024 to make GImbalabs a better place. In our new discord, there would be a dedicated category of **Contribution Circles** to serve the circles’ discussion. There would be 5 channels representing the 5 circles under this channel.

In these channels, we are not going to use the space to serve any delivered project out of the circle. For instance, **Plutus-PBL** is definitely a project out of **Education** circle, however, the discussion on current **Plutus-PBL** like student talks and mentorship would not be carried out in this channel. Rather, these channels would be more on futuristic planning and execution around contribution in several aspects:

1. Strategy on future activities, e.g. extending PBLs into local context would go under the **education** channel
2. Suggesting new initiatives, e.g. suggesting and discussing around for-profit partnership with universities would go under the **sustainability-and-funding** channel
3. Organize current tasks and focus, e.g. detailed discussion on Twitter post schedule for promoting Gimbalabs would go under the **outreach-and-advocacy** channel

We’ll try to talk a bit less, but really getting our hands dirty here. This category would be the best place to start building your reputation around our community and further participate in Gimbalabs’ future governance.

### 4. Current Projects

This is the category for grouping discussion on project nurtured by Gimbalabs. Some quick example are **dandelion** and **andamio** would be 2 channels under this category. User might come here to ask question, provide feedback on product etc.

### 5. Discussion

Here is the place for free discussion. Currently we propose to have 4 channels under this category:

1. **chill-chat** - For any discussion you believe it is aligned with the general interest of Gimbalabs community. From here, you could share opinion on Cardano project, make your Cardano connection, share you next project ideas, look for teammate for your next side projects etc. Literally anything could go here.
2. **technical-chat** - Gimbalabs gathers a group of enthusiasts while many of us might learning or building something. All technical related chat could go here, including different DSLs on on-chain code writing, off-chain code building, frontend backend software discussion etc.
3. **off-topics** - If there is something you want to share but you are not confident that everyone is interested in it, you can go here. It serves the same purpose of our current random channels such as brain dump, book or music share etc.
4. **drop in and meet up** - To provide a quick place for voice discussion if needed.

### 6. Local Community

In Gimbalabs 2024, we also plan to spin up different Gimbalabs local community. The category provide a separate channel for each location on local specific discussion, such as local event details, discussion in local languages etc. Also, it could serve as an easy gateway for new-joiners who are not familiar with Cardano ecosystem or Gimbalabs, allowing the local host to gradually onboard new bloods to our community by engaging new members here.

## Order of categories, and why

Up till this point, thank you so much for attention in understanding our new design! Your awareness / potential feedback is definitely needed for Gimbalabs to succeed. While you are reading the above details, except **Info** should probably go first, you may wonder if they are ordered or we put them randomly above. The quick answer is that we have actually put in some thoughts to come up with the above order! Here I will explain why.

### Why putting PBLs in front of everything

With previous years of track record, Gimbalabs gradually builds a reputation around community for providing quality education materials. PBLs is and will continue to be Gimbalabs’ DNA. It is thus a good place for us to demonstrate all the community good work and represent part of our community identity. On the other hand, we believe there would be a significant proportion of community members gather around for PBLs. Therefore, we acknowledge the community need and put PBLs in front of everything.

### Why contribution circles comes the second?

While we wish everyone can get the value we want from the community, without sufficient community contribution we might not be able to maintain our delivery as high quality as current is. Therefore, we propose to put the contribution circle right after our identity. It serves 2 purposes:

### 1. To raise the awareness of contributing to Gimbalabs to everyone

When we look at our current discord, seldom do we promote the culture of making contribution to community. Therefore, many people, myself in early days included, would just be around to look for what I want but never get the intrigue to think about contribution. With showing the contribution circles sessions under everyone’s eyebrows, we wish to nudge the community members into considering making contribution.

### 2. To provide an easy access for making contribution

Even when you do feel the connection and warmth from the community and wish to give back, without an easy access, it would just cost ourselves too much of our will power to initiate everything on giving back. Hopefully with this new design, everyone could find themselves much more easier to get into the context of making contribution and taking actions accordingly.

### Why current projects is on lower part

In contrast to making contribution (which generally people would not think about it unless it is in front of them), people would consciously look for project space. Either they are already the existing user of it, look for the space for discussion or feedback or they have heard of it somewhere and trying to search for more information, it doesn’t matter if you put the channels higher or lower in the space. In light of this, we come up with a proposal to make the project space lower in priority for greater good.

### What about playground?

You may wonder in current design we neglect the space for some of our core activities, playground and live-coding included. Indeed that’s not the case! We classify these meet-up activities as **Events** and they would rather shown at the top of the discord before any categories and channels. Community members could easily find out the necessary details such as meeting links, miro board links or meeting agenda there. We believe the on-going discussion after these sessions would fall under one of the current channels as designed, so we don't have to split community attention into different channels.

## The use of discord bots

It is definitely that not everyone at Gimbalabs would read blog post like this, and we have to educate the community on how to use the new discord channel. Helpers like discord bots could best fit for purposes like this. In our new discord, we would try to build a bot for below purposes:

- **Guiding community members to use the discord channel adequately**
  - First channel message - a message on what to expect in this channel
  - Keyword detection - whenever people mention keywords like **dandelion** in channels other than **dandelion** the bot would prompt a private message suggesting they might want to go to **dandelion** channel for discussion.
- **Encourage engagement according to activities**
  - New member would receive a prompt to suggest writing self introduction or tell others why you are here in the **chill-chat** channel
  - Veteran message - after some time or interaction in discord, the bot would suggest people look in the contribution circles.

Above shows some potential use cases for the discord bots to facilitate better usage of discord channels, definitely more to come!

## What’s Next?

A preview discord channel is created, there would be a week for community reviews before we migrate to the new structure as designed. If you get any suggestions, feedback or concerns, please feel free to talk through in our working discord channel at **discord-redesign**. Also, you can join the upcoming Gimbalabs governance sessions on upcoming Wednesday and Thursday 1430 UTC. In these sessions, we would also finish the discussion on discord roles design. In 2 weeks time, we will welcome our newly designed communication tools, for our brand new Gimbalabs 2024. It is the year for us to make something happen. See you all around!
